# LO2: Application

I am able to draw on and apply a range of relevant skills and attributes (academic, professional and/or personal) in order to engage effectively and critically with my SLICC, identifying where I need to improve these and/or develop new ones.

## Final Reflective Report

I identified programming skills with different languages as the only skills relevant to my SLICC. I split this skill into code understanding skills to read the existing source code and code writing skills for coding the solution. However, my SLICC proved to involve much more than just coding skills. I had to apply my problem-solving skills when attempting to develop solutions. On top of that, I also have to use my software testing and time management skills to fulfil my responsibilities as a senior member of society. I faced many challenges when applying these skills during my SLICC, but overcoming challenges has led to development in all the skills I mentioned.

When investigating my topic, I improved my code understanding skills when I had to read some of the [poorly documented source code](https://github.com/LCCZK/IEL/blob/main/blogs/24-11-22%20Understand_the_existing_code.md) with multiple coding styles by other EUFS members. I learnt the more [effective way]() to find and check official documentation of third-party libraries rather than interpreting the use of a function from its name. When implementing solutions to sensor failure, I also developed my code-writing skills to [implement advanced functions](https://github.com/LCCZK/IEL/blob/main/blogs/24-11-30%20Coding_the_solution.md), [follow industrial conventions](https://github.com/LCCZK/IEL/blob/main/blogs/24-11-22%20Understand_the_existing_code.md) and [keep brief and consistent comments](https://github.com/LCCZK/IEL/blob/main/blogs/25-02-05%20Analysing_Rowen's_solution.md) due to my terrible experience when reading source code. When developing my second solution to sensor failure, I also reflected on my experience. I identified the ways and [improved how I approach issues and design solutions](https://github.com/LCCZK/IEL/blob/main/blogs/25-02-08%20Evaluate_solutions.md).

My SLICC also involves me leading the localisation and mapping team in EUFS. To fulfil this task, I had to apply my software testing skills, and I quickly realised the method I used was inefficient. I received complaints that I was too slow and screenshots of terminal outputs were not enough information for developers to fix their code. I then learn how to [set up a CI/CD pipeline](/evidence/pipelines.png) with the help of my peers. I aimed to automate the testing process by performing tasks such as running build, unit test and integration test commands when a merge request is created to generate feedback instantly.

My time and task management skills were also brutally challenged during my SLICC when I tried to balance it with my university studies and my other interests. I realised I tend to underestimate how much time tasks will take, leading to over-committing; an example is that [I had to find someone to replace me](https://github.com/LCCZK/IEL/blob/main/blogs/24-10-21%20Talk_with_lecturer_%26_onboard_new_members.md) for the treasurer role in the Ultimate Frisbee committee. I reflected on such behaviour and drew the conclusion that I was assuming myself would be at my best performance when completing tasks and ignoring the fact that I would sometimes feel unmotivated and miss deadlines I set for myself. For this, I started to [change the way I schedule events](), doubling my estimated time and breaking down a big task into small ones so that I could better utilise my fragmented time, such as 20 minutes between events. On top of that, I also planned to engage in training courses for my recently diagnosed ADHD.

All the skills I mentioned above are very valuable to me. For example, I have noticed an increasing number of job opportunities that require coding skills and software testing skills; therefore, developing these skills would mean increasing my employability, and I am planning to sign up for DevOp online courses to take these skills further. Time management and problem-solving skills will be crucial for my 4th year university studies. There will be an increase in workload while writing my dissertations.